financial overview
The University ended fiscal year 2016 with an
operating surplus of $77 million compared to an
operating surplus of $62 million in fiscal year 2015.
The University’s net assets decreased by $2.2 billion to
$42.4 billion at June 30, 2016, reflecting the impact of
investment returns and the annual distribution from
the endowment.
operating revenue
Total operating revenue increased 6% to $4.8 billion.
The largest drivers were the annual endowment
distribution, revenue from continuing and executive
education programs and sponsored revenues.
In fiscal year 2016, the endowment distribution
increased 7% to $1.7 billion. Growth in the endowment
distribution was a result of the annual Corporationapproved
increase, as well as the impact of new gifts.
In the aggregate, Harvard’s endowment payout rate
(i.e., the dollars withdrawn annually for operations and
for one-time or time-limited strategic purposes, as a
percentage of the endowment’s prior year-end market
value) was 5.1%, consistent with the fiscal year 2015
payout rate, and in line with the University’s targeted
payout rate range of 5.0-5.5%.
More than halfway through the five year-long
Campaign, the generosity of our donor community
continues to positively impact the University’s
contribution revenue. Gifts for current use were
$421 million in fiscal year 2016, while total cash
receipts from giving, including gifts designated
as endowment, grew to a record $1.2 billion (see
Note 16 of the audited financial statements). We are
extremely grateful to our donor community for their
continued support.In aggregate, revenue from federal and non-federal
sponsored sources increased by 5% to $845 million
in fiscal year 2016. Federal funding, which accounted
for approximately 71% of total sponsored revenue in
fiscal year 2016, increased 3% to $597 million while
non-federal funding increased by 9% to $248 million.
Fiscal year 2016 represents the first year since 2011
that the University’s federal revenue increased and
was driven by several agencies including the National
Institute of Health and the Department of Defense.
The University continues to build relationships with
foundations, corporations and other non-federal
sponsors resulting in the increase in non-federal
revenue over the prior year.
Net student revenue increased approximately 7% to
$998 million in fiscal 2016, driven by 10% growth
in revenue from continuing and executive education
programs. The expansion of programs and enrollment
across the University continues to positively impact
student revenue. Net graduate tuition increased 6%
with new graduate course offerings and annual rate
changes. Net undergraduate tuition increased 4% as a
result of modest tuition increases offset by a continued
commitment to student financial aid. Since launching
the Harvard Financial Aid Initiative in fiscal year
2005, Harvard has awarded almost $1.6 billion in
grant aid to undergraduates, with annual financial
aid increasing from $80 million in fiscal year 2005
to more than $170 million in 2016. More than half
of Harvard undergraduates receive financial aid and
in fiscal year 2016 these students paid an average of
$12,000 a year.
operating expenses
Total operating expenses increased by 5% to
$4.7 billion. Compensation expense (i.e. salaries,
wages and benefits), which represents approximately
half of the University’s total operating expense,
increased 6% to $2.3 billion. Non-compensation
expenses increased 5%, with increases in expenses
such as services purchased for investment in
information technology and professional services
supporting sponsored programs.
Salaries and wages increased by 6%, or $96 million, to
$1.8 billion in fiscal year 2016 due to the University’s
merit increase programs as well as additional faculty
and staff to support strategic areas of focus such
as academic programs, technology investments,
continuing and executive education programs, online
learning and sponsored research.
Employee benefits expense increased 6% to $530
million. The increase was predominantly driven by
growth in post-retirement and defined benefit costs
due to the impact of adopting a modified mortality
table offset by the change in discount rate. Active
employee health plan expense increased 3% due to
increased claims costs and enrollment.