Avangar Technologies announces the beginning of a new unprecendented global employment campaign. 
reviser yeller winers butchery twenties
Due to company's exploding growth Avangar is expanding business to the European region.
During last employment campaign over 1500 people worldwide took part in Avangar's business
and more than half of them are currently employed by the company. And now we are offering you
one more opportunity to earn extra money working with Avangar Technologies.
druggists blame classy gentry Aladdin

We are looking for honest, responsible, hard-working people that can dedicate 2-4 hours of their
time per day and earn extra £300-500 weekly. All offered positions are currently part-time
and give you a chance to work mainly from home.
lovelies hockey Malton meager reordered

Please visit Avangar's corporate web site (http://www.avangar.com/sta/home/0077.htm) for more details regarding these vacancies.
Hello

I am emailing you as we found your holiday property at

[Source]

and would love you to list it on our website for free:

http://www.holidayrentals.org

This web site now has over 1000 holiday rentals listed in less than 2 months, so
please register and then add as many properties as you wish. All for free forever

If we have emailed you by accident because you have a bed and breakfast, hotel or
something similar then we are sorry but we cannot at present accept your properties.
We are working on a site for this purpose.


Many thanks


Peter
www.holidayrentals.org
Hello again

Self-catering.co.uk was recently launched and if you have not yet added your
property for free then please do as we have had many properties added in the past
few days.

Firstly register at:

http://www.self-catering.co.uk/register/

and you will be emailed an authorisation key.


Thanks for your time and please pass this email onto anyone you think may be
interested to list for free.



Benji
www.self-catering.co.uk
Hi Looking for somerwere to advertise your Holiday Villa for rent. Dismayed by the
high cost of advertising and updates on the sites available. No leads generated form
your current adds.
Well now you have the chance to try our new service. I had the same problems as
yourself, paying high fees, with very little leads generated. Because of this I
decided to start my own site for owners world wide to advertise on. I decided to
produce the site for the owners, NO pages full of adverts, No difficulty in
navigation, Ease of use Owner interface. In fact everything to make advertising as
simple as possible. For the people looking to rent, things could not be easier. They
can search using a muli criteria form, or just follow the simple maps to find an
area they are interested in. Once they find what they are interested in, they can
then send an enquiry email to the owner, or phone them direct, or choose to send a
text message through our servers, totally free of charge.
It is TOTALLY FREE  to place your advert on the site, with up to 20 photo's and SMS
text alert service.

